# March 28th 2019

Using the PSLab and the `MeasureInterval` method, I was able to retrieve the context switching time of Contiki!

The code is the following:

```python3
from PSL import sciencelab

I = sciencelab.connect()

values = []

for i in range(250):
    cs_time = I.MeasureInterval('ID1', 'ID1', 'falling', 'rising')
    values.append(cs_time)

print((sum(values)/len(values))*10**6)
```

This code will compute the interval from a falling edge and a rising edge on the same GPIO.
This interval represents a context switching time.

In the Contiki tasks, the benchmark framework will set the GPIO up at the begin of the task and the GPIO down at the end of the task.

Using this, we still need to use a external device.
The PSLab seems to be a good fit.

Next steps is to performs some usefull measure on the RTOS context.

## Sync PSLab and Contiki

The goal is to sync the PSLab script and the Contiki benchmark framework in order to make the context switching times correspond to the state of the RTOS.
For example, the RTOS will pass from task 1 to task 2 then from task 2 to task 2.
But the PSLab does not know which task is run on Contiki.

To do so, using UART, the script will send a ready signal to the board and wait for it to responds by a ready signal.

So the board with Contiki will send a string of the format `[BENCH_CONTEXT_SWITCHING]` through UART to the python script on `bench_init()`.
When the scrip read this string, it sends the same data to the board.
This will tell to both parties that everyone is ready to compute the context switching time.

This works!!!

The script read the UART in a thread and display the received string to the stdout.
It also compute the context switching time from the PSLab board.
