# January 23th 2019

## From September 2018 to January 2019

### September 2018

Our goal was to benchmark and compare as much RTOS as we could.
We attented the RIOT summit 2018 at Amsterdam.
A complete report is available.
In summary, we met some of the developers of the RIOT OS and they show an interest in our work.
We also saw the importance of the cryptography and tought about adding it to our thesis.

Mostly, during this month we read and reviewed papers about RTOS.

### October/November 2018

After reviewed a lot of papers, we found that benchmarking and comparing RTOS is covered in a lot of them.
We then changed our goal. Our new goal is creating a framework that could directly benchmark the RTOS with any application.

We frist tried to benchmark RIOT OS using an external board.
The idea was to run any application on the main board with RIOT and use an external board or a Raspberry Pi to retrieve any useful data.
The communication would be in I²C or SPI.

A problem started to appear. How to measure the performance of a RTOS without altering it?


### December 2018

Using an external board have to many restrictions.
We abandonned that idea.

We have made a first functionnal prototype.
The framework is develop in the RTOS.
It computes the context switching time.

We have made a poster and received some feedbacks.
We need to watch the energy level as it can vary the performance of the application.

We also developped the same framework under Contiki.

### January 2019

A little modification was made to the framework.
Instead of measuring the context switching is seconds, we measure it in tiks.

We also used the Pocket Science Lab board to measure the impact of our framework on the application.
