# March 21st 2019

Using the oscilloscope MSO56 from Tektronix, we measured precisely the context switching in contiki.

The application in contiki consists of the two following tasks:
- task 1 set up the GPIO PC2 for 1ms and then set it back down;
- task 2 set up the GPIO PC3 for 1ms and the set it back down.

As Contiki use a cooperative scheduler, each task stops itself to let the other runs. 
We could not use RIOT OS for this experiment as it uses a preemptive scheduler. The timers would interfere with the context switching time.

## Results without the framework

Our goal is to come the closest as we can to those results with our framework.

- context switching time: 14.68us (from task 1 to task 2) and 14.88us (from task 2 to task 1);
- duration of the task: 1ms
- GPIO delay: 14.3ns

We are mainly intersted by the context switching. The other values are there for reference point and must not change with our framework.

## Results with the framework

The framework simply output the context switching time to the standard output.

- context switching time: 1.86ms (for both tasks)
- duration of the task: 1ms
- GPIO delay: 12.64ns

First, the duration of the task and the GPIO delay does not change.
That means that the call to the framework during the task does not interfere with its duration.
The context switching time, however, change from 14.68us to 1.86ms.
This huge difference comes from the framework that output through serial the context switching time.
Even with a high baudrate, the serial output is too slow do not add an overhead.

## Conclusion

The values that gave the experiment show that our initial framework add a huge overhead.
It does not mean that it could not compute the correct switching time.
Next step is too retrieve the value of the context switching time given by our framework and check if it corresponds to the one given by the oscilloscope.
Also, we will try other strategies to reduce the overhead of our framework.

All the results can be found in the results folder.
